With SASS now finally installed
on your computer, let's put a piece of SASS
in our CSS code and then compile it in a command line.
Now, the first thing that I want to do here
is to create a folder where we can put our SASS files.
So I do it here in a command line,
because as I was saying, I really like to use it,
so "mkdir", make directory, and then just "sass".
Alright, and now you see it's already here.
Of course we could have done it here in our
code editor as well, just like you're hitting "New Folder"
but again, I like to use the terminal
for this kind of stuff.
Then we can move in there
and create our very first SASS file.
And we do it by using the "touch" command
and "edit" on Windows.
And if "edit" doesn't work for that,
then you can, of course, just do it in your code editor.
So, "touch" and let's call it "main" and "scss."
Okay, so remember there are two syntaxes of SASS.
The first is called "SASS"
and the second one is "SCSS."
And if we want to write "SCSS,"
which stands for "Sassy CSS",
we have to specify the file extension
as being "scss", okay?
So, all of our SASS files will have
this "scss" file extension, okay?
And, so here it is, so this is
our very first SASS file.
So, let's open it up and here we go.
So, what we can do now,
and what I will do,
is to simply take all of this code from
the "style.css" file and put it into our main file.
So I select everything, cut it,
and paste it here.
And save it, of course.
And, that's it.
So, remember, that with "Sassy CSS,"
so with "SCSS" it's way easier to convert
original CSS code to SASS.
Because valid CSS is also valid SCSS.
And so that's what we just did.
So, this "style.css," we don't need it anymore
because now we're going to start writing
our code here in this file.
At least for now.
So let's put some SASS here
so that we can actually try it out.
And the best thing to start, I think
is just to put in some variables here.
Let's just start with the colors again.
So I want a color that's primary.
So our primary color, it's actually
this green color here.
So this one's our primary color,
our primary green color.
And then the other ones,
this one is just a lighter version
and this one is just a darker version, okay?
So "color primary light"
(typing)
is just this one here.
And the "color primary dark"
(typing)
is just this one.
Okay, and so here we have some variables.
Now I can actually get rid of this comment here.
Okay, so we have our three variables here.
Now let's use the ones that
we actually used already, which are these ones.
This one and this one,
we used them here in this linear gradient.
So what we can do here is
to actually replace this.
Now what I'm about to do,
this only works in SASS.
So in regular CSS, we cannot put
a hexadecimal color here in the RGBA function,
and then some opacity,
and then it will translate it to the color.
It doesn't work like that.
But, here in SASS it does actually work.
So I can just put here "color-primary-light."
So "color-primary-light."
And down here, I can put "color-primary-dark."
And you see it's a lot cooler to write
SASS here in the real code editor
than it was on the code pen,
because we have all this cool autocomplete going on here.
Okay, so we have our variables,
and we have used them here in this place.
And so let's now move on and actually compile this.
And how do we do that?
So, remember we installed our "node-sass" package, right?
So how are we going to use it?
We use it by writing an NPM script.
And, this is the place where we write our scripts.
So, right here in this "package.json" file,
we not only have all of these definitions
of the projects and our dependency,
we also write scripts here.
So we don't need this script here,
this was just a predefined script that was here, okay?
So now we can write our own script.
I'm going to call it "compilesass"
and then in here we can write our command.
And how does this command work?
Well, we start with "node-sass",
which is the name of the package
then we have to specify our SASS file,
which is the input file,
and then we specify which is the output file,
so the compiled CSS file.
So this is like writing "node-sass"
right here in the terminal,
then the input file and the output file
like I was just saying.
But, unfortunately that's not going to work.
But, what will work is to write a script here
in this "package.json" file,
and then in the terminal we will call that script
with this name here.
But I'm going to show you how in a second, okay?
Just to let you know why we're actually writing this script.
Okay, so again, now we need the input file,
so our SASS file, so we need to specify
where this file is actually located.
And where is it?
Well, from the "package.json" file,
which is where we are,
we need to go into the "sass" file, right,
and then select the "main.scss" file.
So, "sass/main.scss".
So this is our input file.
Now the output file, we want it to be
actually this one called "style.css".
So it is in the "css" folder and called "style.css".
And it will then simply overwrite
this file that we have here.
But it doesn't matter because it's already empty anyway.
And now with this code, we're ready to go
and ready to try it out, okay?
Are you ready?
Let's do it.
So, back to the terminal.
We now write "npn run" and then
the name of our script: "compile.sass".
So let's try it out now.
Okay, so it says "rendering is complete
saving css file... write CSS to /Users/jonas"
and on "style.css".
So let's take a look.
And, bam, here it is.
So, the variables are not here,
the ones that we wrote, here in the top.
And you see that our header with the gradient now,
it's back to these colors that we had before.
So SASS replaced the variable names
that we put in our code,
so which are this ones.
It actually replaced them with
our variable definitions that we had in the beginning.
So everything is working just fine
exactly as expected.
So, great, that's great news.
It means that everything is working fine
and that we're good to go, and
good to use SASS now on our local computer.
Congratulations to reach this point.
This is really great, really cool, okay?
And if we now go check out our page,
so we can close this one,
if we check this out and reload it,
then everything works the same,
it looks the same,
it looks exactly as it was looking
as you were still using our CSS code.
And that makes a lot of sense,
because, of course, as I told you in the beginning,
the website, the web page, it never even knows
that what we're actually writing is SASS code.
Because it only ever knows of the CSS code.
Because as you see, what we have here
is still called "style.css".
And so this final output of our main "sass" file
is, of course, what the browser uses
to render the web page.
And, so we would actually never again
have to look at this file,
and don't worry about it ever again, okay?
Now this is only one of the many, many possible scripts
that we could write here.
There's so many packages on NPM.
There are packages to automatically prefix
our code in order to support all of the web browsers.
There are packages to compress our code, and so much more.
Now one I think that I want to do here
before leaving you is to just make
one very small change to this.
Because imagine that we now keep adding
code here to our "sass" file,
and actually let's do that,
so, for example, we can set a color
gray, dark for example.
And let's put it to "777".
Because we actually already
used this color here more than once.
And so let's simply replace it with this variable.
So, color, gray, dark.
And I know that somewhere down here
it's repeated, that's actually not a color.
And, yeah, so here it is.
(typing)
So, color, gray, dark.
If we wanted now to go check out the page
to see if everything worked,
then we would, of course, first
have to come here to the terminal,
then compile our SASS code.
And only then would we be ready
to check out our page, right?
But that's not really practical.
And so what we can do,
which is something that this "node-sass"
package allows us to do,
is to keep watching our main "sass" file.
So all we have to do is to add the "w-flag",
so the "watch" option, because this "w" stands for "watch".
And if we know start this process again,
it will keep watching for whatever we do in our code.
So let's run this again,
and remember, just hit the up-arrow.
So it's watching for changes.
So it's only gonna do something
as soon as we change something in the file, okay?
So let's just change something,
let's just put some space here, save it.
Let's check it out.
And, here you go.
So it detected a change,
it compiled the code,
and then wrote to "css".
So let's take a look now.
And, yeah, so, the grey color that we had here
is still the same.
So if we did some other change here,
let's say we want to add a color for white.
"color-white"
(typing)
Okay.
Imagine at some point later we want to change
the color white to a very light gray, for example.
And then instead of going everywhere to change
all these FFF codes, you will simply have to change it here.
Okay.
(typing)
So "color-white,"
and let me just copy it.
Because I've seen it multiple times down here.
(mouse clicks and typing sounds)
And, let me see now.
And so it's, well, it's run into some errors.
But that's not really a problem,
because here in the end it actually,
it wrote our "css" just fine, okay.
This is probably because I have
autosave enabled in my browser,
and so I think that each time I type something
it triggers a compilation of the SASS code.
And so sometimes the code is not correct,
and then it will give us this error.
But we should be fine,
so let's just check if everything
that was white is still white.
And it is.
And, of course, we can confirm it in the code.
So our gray color is still here, and
our white color is still here.
And so everything is still working the same, right?
Okay, so now we have this in place
where each time that we write
some more SASS code, it automatically compiles
and we can then check out our page, our result.
The only thing that you have to keep in mind
is that you cannot close this window here,
this process, because otherwise it will stop.
So if you want to use the terminal now,
you can actually open a new tab,
at least that's now it works on a Mac,
just hit Command-T,
and so now you can write your commands in here,
because as long as this one here is working
you cannot write anything new here in this console,
in this terminal window,
and so you have to open a new one.
Now in Windows, I think you can just use
another command prompt, by again
right-clicking the "Start" button,
and then choosing "Command Prompt" from there.
That should open you a new window
where you can also write the next commands.
And if you want this process to stop,
the SASS process, if you want to stop it,
to compile, then you just close this tab here
and then it's gone.
Alright, and so with this we're well on our way
to set up a very nice development environment here for us.
Now only one thing is left,
and we're gonna do that in the next lecture,
which is to actually trigger
an automatic reload each time
that we change our page.
So automatically reloading this page
each time that we change something.
So check out the next lecture to
learn everything about that.